Added release checklist page (#741)
18F/guides: content/engineering/our-approach/release-checklist.md

---
title: Release checklist
sidenav: true
sticky_sidenav: true
tags: engineering
permalink: /engineering/our-approach/release-checklist/
redirect_from:
  - engineering/release-checklist/
layout: layouts/page
eleventyNavigation:
  parent: engineering_approach
  key: Release checklist
  order: 10
  title: Release checklist
subnav:
  - text: Introducing release checklist
    href: "#introducing-release-checklist"
  - text: What should it look like?
    href: "#what-should-it-look-like"
  - text: Questions to consider
    href: "#questions-to-consider"
  - text: Resources
    href: "#resources"
---

> ## Introducing release checklist

Author: Talked to alex and we made change on this part. @hbillings let me know what you think. If you are good, please kindly give us the blessing (approval) so I can merge it :)

> The release checklist is a list of all tasks that need to be completed during the release process -- be it a launch or updating software. The checklist helps ensure that all tasks are completed prior to a release, reducing risk. as well as following up on what needs to be done once release is complete.  When people see all the tasks listed and who owns each item, it increases confidence that the release will be successful. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The release checklist is a list of all tasks that need to be completed during the release process -- be it a launch or updating software. The checklist helps ensure that all tasks are completed prior to a release, reducing risk, and helps with following up on what needs to be done once release is complete.  When people see all the tasks listed and who owns each item, it increases confidence that the release will be successful. 
```

> The release checklist is a list of all tasks that need to be completed during the release process -- be it a launch or updating software. The checklist helps ensure that all tasks are completed prior to a release, reducing risk, and helps with following up on what needs to be done once release is complete.  When people see all the tasks listed and who owns each item, it increases confidence that the release will be successful. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The release checklist is a list of tasks that need to be completed during a major release, like an initial site launch. 

The checklist helps ensure that all tasks are completed prior to a release, reducing risk, and helps with following up on what needs to be done once release is complete.  When people see all the tasks listed and who owns each item, it increases confidence that the release will be successful. 
```

Reviewer: @kewlguy781 -- does this do a good job of capturing our discussion? 

@hbillings -- does this do a good job of answering your question about what `release` means in this context?

Reviewer 2: This looks great, thank you both so much!

Being transparent and communicating about what is going on is very important to the success of the release. We encourage people to follow and document everything on the checklist so it can be revisited after release and use that information to improve the checklist for the upcoming release. 

## What should it look like?

The following "columns" are recommended:

> >**Owner**: Who owns this item in the checklist?
> 
> >**Date and Time**: What is expected for this to be completed? How long will it take to complete this?
> 
> >**Explanation of Task**: What is expected of the task being completed in this?
> 
> >**Status**: What is the status of this? It can be set to the following fields: Pending, Started/In Progress, Completed/Done, Blocked
> 
> >**Notes**: Any notes that would like to be reviewed at a later time. This can be used for reflection meetings and to improve the checklist after the release for the next release.

Reviewer 3: Feel free to reject. As I was reading it, though, I was a little thrown that these bullet points were in a different order from the example table columns. 😛 

```suggestion
>**Date and Time**: What is expected for this to be completed? How long will it take to complete this?

>**Owner**: Who owns this item in the checklist?

>**Status**: What is the status of this? It can be set to the following fields: Pending, Started/In Progress, Completed/Done, Blocked

>**Explanation of Task**: What is expected of the task being completed in this?

>**Notes**: Any notes that would like to be reviewed at a later time. This can be used for reflection meetings and to improve the checklist after the release for the next release.
```

---

> title: Release checklist

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Software launch checklist
```

Apply update title

Reviewer: @kewlguy781 -- Gentle nudge on this suggestion to update the title element. What do you think? Thanks!

sidenav: true
sticky_sidenav: true
tags: engineering
permalink: /engineering/our-approach/release-checklist/
redirect_from:
  - engineering/release-checklist/
layout: layouts/page
eleventyNavigation:
  parent: engineering_approach
  key: Release checklist
  order: 10
  title: Release checklist
subnav:

>   - text: Introducing release checklist
>     href: "#introducing-release-checklist"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - text: Software launch checklist
    href: "#software-launch-checklist"
```

  - text: What should it look like?
    href: "#what-should-it-look-like"
  - text: Questions to consider
    href: "#questions-to-consider"
  - text: Resources
    href: "#resources"
---

> ## Software launch checklist
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

@kewlguy781 Suggest deleting this because it looks like it duplicates the `title` element in the preview build: https://federalist-8bc0b42c-5fd0-4ae8-9366-cd9c265a4446.sites.pages.cloud.gov/preview/18f/guides/jon-releasecheck/engineering/our-approach/release-checklist/

Reviewer: @kewlguy781 -- take a look at this suggestion to remove the duplicate title.

> ## Introducing release checklist

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Software launch checklist
```
